## Covalently Linked Tetracene Dimers for Singlet Fission
#### Jamie Snyder, University of Colorado <br>July 2, 2015

One process that has the potential of efficiently harvesting solar energy is singlet fission (SF), a process by which one photon of light can produce two excited states. Investigations of three different series of bistetracene (BT) dimers were used to explore the effect of symmetry on the rate and driving force of SF, as well as the electronic coupling. A dimer and the corresponding monomer were used to build a synthetic infrastructure and explore preliminary photophysics. All of the dimers were connected by one to three norbornyl bridges and exhibit varying amounts of electronic coupling.

The first series of cofacial BT dimers that have one (BT1) to three (BT3) norbornyl bridges linking the two tetracene chromophores. Density functional theory calculations of BT1-BT3 were used to explore the SF driving force and the change in through-space versus through-bond contributions to the electronic coupling. The thorough synthetic investigation of the monomeric tetracene-norbornyl bridge developed to build a synthetic library that aided the synthesis of BT1, the first rigid SF dimer, will be discussed.

In the second portion of this work, the SF driving force, the electronic coupling will be calculated for the second and third series of BT dimers. In the second series, the orbital overlap of the norbornyl bridge and tetracene arms will be exploited by changing how the bridge and arms are connected. In the final series, the synthetic infrastructure developed for BT1 is utilized in the design of a series of heteroatom substitutions. The last two series of BT dimers were found to lead to an increase in the electronic coupling, which is expected to be productive for SF.
